Guidelines on building UI with Qt Designer.

The Qt Designer functionality is also available in Qt Creator, but in this project we're only using
Qt Designer and not referencing Qt Creator.

## Edit `.ui` files
Edit files in Qt Designer:
```
inv ui.edit <file>
```
If using PyCharm, can also dbl click the `.ui` file from the _Project_ window.

## Compile/convert to `.py`
`.ui` files can be loaded at runtime using `QUiLoader`, but this has a performance hit as the `.ui`
file needs to be interpreted each time the app is executed.

Compiling/converting the `.ui` file into a python (`.py`) file is the preferred method for
production environments.

```
inv ui.py <file>
```

!!! Warning

    The `.py` files may be generated in a different encoding from that of other python files in
    the project that can cause errors like:

    [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31233777/python-source-code-string-cannot-contain-null-bytes](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31233777/python-source-code-string-cannot-contain-null-bytes)

    They may be generated in UTF-16 while other python files are in UTF-8.

    The encoding can be checked and changed in the IDE.

## Guidelines
Remember to give meaningful names to all objects in Qt Designer as these will be used in code.

!!! Warning

    If changing object names in Qt Designer, the code needs to be updated manually to that same
    name.

Particularly the top level widget in the form as that's going to be the name of the class being
imported in Python.

Sample names with suggested naming convention:

* UI file: `user_form.ui`  
  This should be the _Snake Case_ version of the form name (which is _Pascal Case_) in order to
  conform with Python's modules (files) naming convention.
* Top level form name in UI file: `UserForm`  
  These should be _Pascal Case_ (capitalize first letter of each word, no spaces).
* Python file: `ui_user_form.py`
* Class name in Python file: `Ui_UserForm`, autogenerated by `pyside6-uic`.  
  This follows the pattern `Ui_<top level form name>`.  
  The Python class name is defined in the `.ui` file (which is a XML file) in `<widget>`, ex.
  ```
  <widget class="QWidget" name="UserForm">
  ```
  
  !!! Note

      `pyside6-uic` does not support specifying the class name.

      Always follows the pattern above.

* Custom class file: `user_form.py`
* Custom class name: `UserForm`

### Recap on UI files
* `user_form.ui` Generated by Qt Designer.  
  Top level form name should be `UserForm`.
* `ui_user_form.py` Generated by `pyside6-uic` when converting the `.ui` file to `.py`.  
  Class name is `Ui_UserForm`.
* `user_form.py` Our own python file with a class inheriting from the generated one.  
  Class name should be `UserForm`.

## Resource files
Qt resource files are created in Qt Designer or Qt Creator and have a `.qrc` extension.  
These files can be used by different projects (`.ui` files) but changes in one place will affect
everywhere.

They are converted to `.py` using `pyside6-rcc`. Binaries included as a binary string.

**Notes:**

* The `.py` resource files should have `_rc` appended in the name.  
  Ex, `user_form.qrc` should be converted to `user_form_rc.py`.
* The `.py` resource file (`*_rc.py`) needs to live in the same folder as the `ui_*.py` file
  (generated with `pyside-uic`).
* If the `.py` files are not in the project's root (which is the common situation), then the flag
  `--from-imports` needs to be used in `pyside-uic` when generating the `ui_*.py` file.
* Working with resources in Qt Creator is slightly different from Qt Designer, but the flow is the
  same and everything is similar.  
  In Qt Creator there's the concept of _Project_ and the resource file needs to first be associated
  with the project to then be used in the `.ui` file.
* The file `assets/images/button.gif` is included in the app as an external resource file for demo
  purposes.
  
!!! Note

    SVG files may not work on some machines if the required dependencies are not installed.  
    For that reason, working only with PNG, ICO, GIF and JPG files.

    For a list of supported formats in the current machine:

    ```python
    from PySide6.QtGui import QImageReader

    for x in QImageReader.supportedImageFormats():
        print(x.toStdString())
    ```
